>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to Beyond Belief.
Doctors JJ and
Desiree Hurtak are
founders of the Academy
for Future Science.
Now that's an international
non-governmental organization
that works to bring
cooperation between science
and spirituality
through the very
positive use of consciousness.
They've written a
number of books.
Their latest is called
"Giza's Industrial Complex."
Welcome, JJ and
Desiree, to the program.
Welcome back.
>>JJ HURTAK: Thank you, George.
Great to be here.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
Always a pleasure.
>>NOORY: You two may be the
most sought after couple
I have ever come across.
I'm curious, how
did you two meet?
JJ?
>>JJ HURTAK: I was a young
professor working with the Walt
Disney Studios in a
college called California
Institute of the Arts.
And Desiree was my
student, and she
was able to keep up with me
in art, science, and music.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: And
that's exactly when
he had his unique
experience that
brought about his famous
book, "The Keys of Enoch".
And so at that point I
understood what he was saying,
and that brought us together.
So it's been 73.
>>NOORY: That's fantastic.
And you have keyed in a lot
on a lot of different things.
But you specialize, would
you say, on Egyptology?
>>JJ HURTAK: Egyptology
and also other sacred areas
throughout the world.
So we combine nine
different disciplines
from archaeology, sociology,
psychology, to space science.
>>NOORY: What's it
like, JJ, to stand
by the base of the
pyramids and look up?
>>JJ HURTAK: It's overwhelming.
You see a gargantuan
system that is
far beyond human
comprehension at first.
And I think this is why the
great Greek thinkers, Homer
went to Egypt, Pythagoras
the great mathematician, all
of them had their
schooling in Egypt.
So it's really the great
center of information
that we're still
trying to unravel.
>>NOORY: I've been
fascinated with Egypt
since I was a little boy.
My late father
was born in Cairo.
We're not Egyptian by any means.
We're Lebanese.
But that's where they
were when he was born,
and they stayed there
for about six years
before they came to
the United States.
>>JJ HURTAK: And
Desiree's father,
as a young medical student
in Vienna, Austria,
went down to Egypt
in 1923, stood
at the head of the sphinx.
>>NOORY: Whoa.
That's where my dad was born.
>>JJ HURTAK: Even the paws
were still under the sand.
And so we've been involved as a
family for 100 years in Egypt.
>>NOORY: A lot of mystery.
What do you think is
going on in Egypt, JJ?
>>JJ HURTAK: I think what
we're seeing in Egypt,
it's a model of information
on all levels of energy
production.
A library of ancient knowledge,
an astrophysical gauge
or computer of some
level, mathematical magic
connecting us with the stars.
Everything in the realm
of science, psychology,
and spirituality is connected
in the roots of consciousness
with Egypt.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
And you know, we
were actually one of the
founders of the Tomb of Osiris.
And this is 100
feet down, almost
in the center of the plateau.
And this is what brought us
to our latest book, "Giza's
Industrial Complex",
because if you
go that 100 feet down, you'll
find a type of sarcophagus
with four pillars around it, but
it's also covered with water.
So why would you ever put a dead
body down with a lot of water?
So this gave us the idea
that maybe it was more
than something of burial.
Maybe it was a technology
that they understood
and they needed the
boxes, like we use today
with covering nuclear fuel,
to maintain that technology.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
And of course digging
down 100 feet,
wouldn't the shifting sands
just keep filling back in?
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Well,
these are called well shafts,
and there's actually
several on the plateau.
You know, people look
at the three pyramids,
but in addition to that,
there's queen pyramids,
there's a lot of
well shafts, there's
other sarcophagi around.
There's a whole mastaba area.
So it's a huge
complex, and that's
why we call it Giza's
industrial complex.
We're not just looking
at the Great Pyramid.
It's a complete area of
technology, we believe.
>>NOORY: And you believe the
pyramids are power sources,
don't you?
>>JJ HURTAK: Correct.
Power sources and
chronometers, which
means time measuring devices.
And we are members of the
American Hydrogen Energy
Society.
We've lectured with specialists
throughout the world.
And many of our colleagues
believe, as we do,
that the pyramid represents
a mechanism through which
hydrogen can be produced.
>>NOORY: Is it a machine?
>>JJ HURTAK: Yes.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
Well, we also think
that there's aspects
of initiation,
so we don't want
to throw that out.
We also acknowledge the
alignment to stars like Orion,
or we'll say the area of Alpha
Draconis, the circumpolar area
Thuben.
But in addition to that,
hydrogen probably was used.
Now, hydrogen is
a number one fuel
throughout the whole universe.
And all you have to do is
take water and break it down.
High school students
can do this.
And I believe we're at the
verge of a new hydrogen economy.
So right now, we're using a
lot of battery technology,
like the Teslas,
but the next phase
that Europe and other
countries are coming out with
will be a hydrogen technology.
>>NOORY: Christopher
Dunn believes also
that the Giza power
plant is exactly that.
Let's look.
What are the chambers
like inside the pyramids?
Because they have
these little long tubes
of chambers and things.
What are they doing?
Where are they going?
>>CHRIS DUNN: Well, that's
one of the unique features
of the Great Pyramid, are
those what you call tubes.
Specifically, if you talk
about the Queen's Chamber
in the Great Pyramid,
that has these tubes
that are going up on an angle
but don't exit the pyramid.
That was one of the mysteries.
And there are two
of these shafts
that go up on the north side and
the south side of the chamber.
>>NOORY: How long are they?
>>DUNN: I'd say
about 200 feet long.
>>NOORY: Wow.
By what, a couple feet?
>>DUNN: But they don't exit.
They don't exit.
No, they're only about
eight inches square.
>>NOORY: That's it?
>>DUNN: Yeah.
And then in the King's
Chamber, you have two shafts.
One is about 8.4 inches
wide by 4.8 inches high,
and that shaft
goes to the north.
And then on the south side,
you have a large opening
in the wall that looks
like a catcher's mitt,
like a horn antenna.
>>NOORY: Could they have carried
water or mercury or anything
like that?
>>DUNN: Well, I mean, if you--
any conduit can carry any
solution you put in it.
But the question is,
was that the reason?
They have been, I think,
incorrectly labeled air shafts.
But the problem with
that is, particularly
with the Queen's Chamber, they
wouldn't have carried any air
because they were closed.
So why did they exist?
And that's what I address in my
book, "The Giza Power Plant",
is what the purpose
of those shafts is.
>>NOORY: And exactly
what do you think it was?
>>DUNN: Well, if you take
the whole pyramid and all
the features within the
pyramid, and I actually
created a scenario where
the Great Pyramid is
in harmony or resonating
with the Earth
and drawing energy
through it, that energy
is then transferred
into airborne sound.
The power center is
the King's Chamber,
and it's constructed
out of granite,
thousands of tons of granite.
And then the Queen's Chamber
was where they created hydrogen
with two solutions
coming in from the north
side and the south side.
They mix, and they
create hydrogen.
>>NOORY: Remarkable.
>>DUNN: And there's evidence
to support my theory.
I think we've talked in the
past about the Gantenbrink's
Door, where they found those--
>>NOORY: That's the one
they drilled through?
>>DUNN: Yes, exactly.
And so there's more
information on that, I think,
that was revealed in 2011.
>>NOORY: What do you both feel
about Christopher's thoughts?
>>JJ HURTAK: I think
Christopher is right on target.
We were there in
the 1970s, and we
collected samples of the salt
crystals inside the Queen's
Chamber, what is called
calcium carbonate, calcium
sulfur, sodium chloride,
salt. And we gave this
to our late colleague
Patrick Flanagan.
Dr. Flanagan analyzed this
with specialists in Arizona,
and they came up
with the conclusion
this material could have been
produced by hydrogen activity.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
Now we would alter
a little bit the structure
that he defined here.
We actually would put the water
coming in from underground,
because the Tomb of
Osiris is full of water.
There's something
about the Giza Plateau,
it sucks literally
water underneath.
It's just an amazing thing.
It's almost like a hydropump.
>>NOORY: In the desert?
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
In the desert, no.
There's water all
the way going up.
And that's why even the
Tomb of Osiris fills up.
And it's quite
far from the Nile.
And of course years
ago, when there
was the-- before the Aswan
Dam, now the water levels
were higher all over
the Nile canal area.
But basically, we believe water
came from underneath, came up.
And then it's so simple with
just a slight energy technology
to separate that water
into hydrogen gas.
Now there's one new theory
that's also come out that ties
in with our co-writer.
We have a co-writer on the
book named James Brown.
He's a contractor, and so he
knows a lot about building.
And that is the fact
of using maybe lasers.
Now I know lasers sound very
odd for people going back
4,000, 5,000 years.
And people laugh at that.
>>NOORY: However.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
However, there's
a new working theory for fusion.
Now, this is a great technology.
This is not fission that
gives you all the pollution,
but this is fusion.
And they're using
hydrogen and boron.
Now boron was
available in Egypt.
And hydrogen is what
we're talking about.
If you pulse it, you pulse that
energy, you will get fusion.
You'll get a reactor going.
And I believe, and so
does our colleague,
the Grand Gallery was that
place for that reactor.
>>JJ HURTAK: Chemical laser.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Now we believe
hydrogen gas was made and used
all over most of the
temples of Egypt.
>>NOORY: What did
they use this for?
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Well, that's
always a very big question.
So obviously not everyone
had an electric light bulb.
They didn't drive cars like
we would do today, because we
really shouldn't be using that.
>>NOORY: They didn't
have their computers.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Right.
So they didn't need it, but
what they did use it for
was the priest and
the royal family.
>>JJ HURTAK: As
well as the artist.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
And the artist.
So what they can do, like
the Dendera light bulb,
you can use a gas to light.
And we know that-- when
Dr. Hurtak said the artist,
it's because if
you go underground,
you'll find a lot of the details
on these tombs and chambers.
You can't even use mirrors to
get the light down into them.
And there's no soot on the wall.
So how did they do
this beautiful art
in the lower chambers if they
didn't have some sort of light?
>>NOORY: Good point.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
Now, Erich von Daniken
has shown that you can
take that Dendera light
bulb that you see
on the wall and make
a light bulb like we have now.
>>JJ HURTAK: We actually saw
this demonstrated in the year
2000 in Vienna, Austria,
where we had anthropologists
and researchers from all
parts of the world looking
at the interesting
artifacts of Egypt,
as Desiree has just
explained, from Dendera,
where you see priest scientists
sitting under these two flasks.
Lighting were like
neon lights, suggesting
the Egyptians had
the ability to create
certain gases, light sources
that enabled them to put
together a vast labyrinthian
system of tunnels and canals
under the complete Giza plateau.
So this is the great
complex of Giza
that we're talking about,
for energy production,
for the training of scientists
throughout the ancient Middle
East, like Pythagoras
and others,
as well as leaving behind
time capsules of information
that Russian scientists
believe connect us
with distant galaxies.
>>NOORY: How did they
know this technology?
I mean, who taught it?
>>JJ HURTAK: Well, of course,
if we go by the Egyptian records
themselves, like the
German philologist
Kurt Sethe wrote in terms of
the Egyptian cosmic heritage,
the gods, the imperishable
gods from Orion or Emsah,
the Egyptian word, from
the stargates of Orion
from the three stars
in the belt of Orion
somehow had the ability to
transmit this information
metaphysically to the
Mayan and the Egyptians,
or a earlier society
of pre-scientists
were able to translate
this into physical form.
>>NOORY: Desiree,
you think so too?
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
Yeah, absolutely.
And in fact, I'd like to go on
a little bit about the hydrogen
technology, what else
they could use it for.
>>NOORY: Sure, absolutely.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Plutarch,
a very famous historian,
wrote that in the Temple of
Jupiter Ammon, which is perhaps
even on the border of Libya,
that they had a light that
would never go out.
They call it one of
the eternal lights,
that even with rain or
wind it would never go out.
And we believe
that's what you see
in what's called
Brown's gas, which
is a slight alteration from
the hydrogen splitting.
>>JJ HURTAK: To the HHO.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: It's HHO.
So you can have this very
powerful acetylene torch
that's really-- it's cold
almost to the touch around it,
but it's so powerful it can
cut through sheets of steel.
So that's one aspect.
Now also Eagle Research,
who talks often
about new technologies, mentions
that even hydrogen, this HHO
especially, you can
actually drink it,
because it's negative ions.
And it actually
makes you healthy.
So I'm not-- we are
not into healing.
I'm not telling everyone to
go out there and go do it.
>>NOORY: Drink your hydrogen.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Yeah, no.
Well, the HHO in particular,
which is Brown's gas,
has been known.
It's actually a
hexagonal shape water,
like Jerry Pollack has
come out with if you've
heard about the work he's done.
And basically people have
taken it in and said it's--
or even just put
it on their bodies.
It heals wounds.
So I'm not into healing,
telling people what to do,
but there's a lot of benefit.
Also agriculture.
Agriculture was known
for the Egyptians.
I mean, people came to Egypt
to get the agriculture.
And if this water,
even with hydrogen--
we use hydrogen
today in agriculture.
That's one of our
mainstays, hydrogen.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
We use it in cars these days.
Toyota loves it.
Let's take a look.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Isn't that better technology,
JJ, than electric cars,
for example?
>>JJ HURTAK: Definitely.
We were in Japan in 2011
with Professor Omasa.
And he was the one who came
up with the breakthroughs
for the hydrogen fuel cell.
We also were with
Professor Winter
in Germany, who came up
also with the breakthrough
for hydrogen to be applied to
the truck fleets of Germany.
And so we're at an amazing
time in future science
and engineering
where we're going
to go more and more
into the hydrogen field,
knowing that the safety
situation has been established.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
Right, and Europe
is just about to make statements
on moving to a hydrogen
economy.
And I have, actually, a
friend in Santa Barbara
who has a Mirai.
And you know, there's only a
few hydrogen fueling stations
right now, but
California is committed
to putting in over 100.
And you know what's interesting
is there's a big cost in this.
And if you have to
transport hydrogen,
then it actually
takes a lot of money,
because you're driving this
gas, even if it's condensed,
to long distances.
But what they're starting
to do, including Shell Oil,
is they're putting a little
generator right next to the gas
station.
So basically they're not
even having to bring it in.
>>NOORY: It's right there.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
They can actually
generate it right there.
And that's why it's taken
so long to get out there,
because there's companies like
Millennium Reign Energy out
of Ohio that says, you know,
you can buy one of these things.
You can put them
in your backyard.
And, you know, the companies
don't want to do that.
They want to have
you still grid-tied,
so to speak, to the technology.
So this is one of the aspects,
but we're very positive.
Right now batteries are more
competitive than hydrogen.
But if there were only
100 gas cars on the road,
the price of gas would
be really high too.
So let's get thousands of
hydrogen cars out there.
Let's get the hydrogen
being generated.
Not blue energy,
but green energy.
Blue energy is where you use
fossil fuels to generate it;
coal, natural gas.
But green hydrogen is
where you use water.
And this is what we think--
>>NOORY: And that's
the way to do it.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: --the
ancient Egyptians had done.
>>JJ HURTAK: So we
have oil, gas, coal.
But now the idea of using
water as a vertical smokestack,
so to speak, eliminating
all the pollutants,
is something we believe goes
all the way back to Egypt.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
And they've been
able to do-- this is
from Stanford University.
Professor Dai has shown
that you can use salt water.
See, we can take the oceans of
the planet and we can use it.
>>NOORY: The ocean is a battery.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: I know.
>>NOORY: And Egyptians
had salt water batteries.
So that's the other aspect
that we take beyond Chris Dunn.
We understand that the Egyptians
had other energy models.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: You know,
we're very pro solar and wind.
But one of the big problems
with solar and wind is storing.
You can't store the energy.
>>NOORY: You don't have a
capacitor enough to store.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Exactly.
And so obviously the
batteries, they've
tried that, the
lithium batteries.
But actually, the salt
water battery holder,
which has been developed
by several companies,
is also another potential.
I mean, it's incredible.
And even using some--
this goes back to Egypt,
because that's kind of
what we're talking about.
There's something called
Quidnet Energy Company.
And they're using
the old oil shafts
to store the compressed
hydrogen or water in there
to be able to store the energy.
>>JJ HURTAK: So the Egyptians
had storage facilities
underground.
And then our work with
ground penetrating radar
is also remote sensing.
With colleagues from
Stanford Research Institute
we saw, as it were, a handshake.
They're looking from above
and looking from below.
We were able to realize the
Egyptians had the ability
to sequester hydrogen
at a very early period.
>>NOORY: How did they have
this kind of knowledge?
Was it given to them
from extraterrestrials?
>>JJ HURTAK: Well, we're part
of a cosmic mind, as it were.
Consciousness is
throughout the universe.
And as we know,
our human mind is
connected with every
mind on planet Earth.
We are global minds
interconnecting.
And we realize that this
doesn't stop with Mother Earth.
We are connected
with our genetic code
with cosmic oscillations, what
we call cosmic intelligence.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
But we do believe--
and we're not talking about
how the pyramid was built.
That probably was--
>>NOORY: That's another
show all by itself
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
Yes, another show.
But that probably
was ET technology.
So we believe, in
a sense, that they
came to give early civilization
a boost and this technology.
And it really was
from way before.
We go back with Robert
Schoch to the idea
that the Sphinx is much
older, probably even
in a different environment even.
>>NOORY: And there's
some kind of storage area
at the base of the Sphinx,
as Edgar Cayce had said,
a Hall of Records.
>>JJ HURTAK: Well,
we were with the team
that actually went down with
the ground penetrating radar.
>>NOORY: There's
something there.
>>JJ HURTAK: And we were able
to discuss the fact that there
seemed to be a
cavity that was there
as well as towards the
rear of the Sphinx.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
Well, there are
two holes around the Sphinx.
One's on the side,
and one's literally
in the middle of the back.
Some people say about the head.
I haven't gone up that
high, and I haven't
seen any pictures of that.
So there's a lot--
these cavities could
have been dug out
by we'll say, the
1800s explorers
or something like that.
But anyway, bottom line is it's
much more than just a pyramid.
And Asclepius, which is an
ancient Nag Hammadi text--
>>JJ HURTAK: The
Coptic text tells us--
and this is Hermes Trismegistus,
which is an Egyptian deity
figure, or we would
call a cosmic scientist,
talking to Asclepius.
Each of the most pious
country in the world
has become the most impious.
A land that was once full of
temples is now full of tombs.
A land once filled with gods has
become a landfill with corpses.
So it was there in the
Asclepius Nag Hammadi text
found in the 1945-47 area of
recent archaeological discovery
that speaks of the gods
that were there in Egypt.
>>NOORY: Now this technology,
this hydrogen technology,
had to be used for
more than just light.
There's something else they had.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: No, exactly.
So agriculture, I have to say,
we use a lot of hydrogen today.
Unfortunately,
not green hydrogen
but, it's used and
mixed with nitrogen
for a lot of our agriculture
all over the world.
>>NOORY: It's what, fertilizers?
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Yes.
Yes, it's necessary.
So they used it, I
believe, for agriculture,
which was a necessary
commodity at the time
to get the civilization
up and running and going.
And we talked about also
the health benefits of HHO,
which is Brown's gas.
>>JJ HURTAK: And also
through the Phoenicians.
The Phoenicians were the
great masters of navigation
for the Egyptian empire.
>>NOORY: Are they the
modern day Syrians?
>>JJ HURTAK: The modern
day Lebanese people.
>>NOORY: Lebanese and Syrians.
>>JJ HURTAK: And they had
brought out information
through even the new world.
We have found Phoenician cargo
buried off the coast of Brazil
in the Atlantic.
We found evidences,
also, of Phoenician areas
up the delta of the
Mississippi, something recently
understood privately
by some archaeologists
who have found the gold ingots
that were used later in Egypt.
>>NOORY: Truly remarkable.
JJ, a lot of people think that
the Great Pyramid is a result
of Atlantis, a tie-in there.
What do you think about that?
>>JJ HURTAK: Yes, I feel that
there is a higher connection
with an earlier civilization.
Some called it Atlantis,
others call it Altea.
We believe that there is
a definite relationship
between Egypt as a
central focal point
to 12 other civilizations,
Atlantis being one.
>>NOORY: I had a chance to
interview film director Carmen
Boulter about her recent
Atlantis discoveries.
Let's take a look.
>>CARMEN BOULTER: And what
we're finding all over
is beings that are
giant, and the bones,
and distended skulls, all over,
Bolivia, all over, all over.
And so--
>>NOORY: The Nephilim?
>>BOULTER: Well, and I think
that can be a catch-all,
because, you know, who did it?
The Anunnaki.
Well, Anunnaki Nephilim.
Who did it?
Aliens.
Well, that doesn't go in depth.
We could just sit here and
go, the Anunnaki did it.
It doesn't explain much.
>>NOORY: Whoa, who's that?
>>BOULTER: OK, so this
is Gia, the giant.
And so we started
with photographs
of a distended skull of an 8
foot 6 inch being from Bolivia.
And Marcia Moore
has recreated it
by using a 3D program
called Mudbox,
and she's putting together
what this being may
have looked like.
And I've called her Gia.
>>NOORY: Well, she looks human.
>>BOULTER: And she's
got the distended skull,
and she's a giant.
So she's just working on her
eyes now to make her real,
but we're recreating a real
3D model that will move
and speculating about what
this being could have been.
>>NOORY: Almost nine feet tall?
>>BOULTER: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Jeez.
>>BOULTER: Yeah,
and there's some
that are even taller than that.
But this becomes part
of the storyline of--
and that would have been normal
in Atlantean times, perhaps,
before the disaster that
made that exceptionally rare.
>>NOORY: Elongated skull.
Is she human or
extraterrestrial?
>>BOULTER: Well,
that's always going
to be an issue,
like I keep saying,
aliens, aliens,
you know, Anunnaki.
I mean, aren't we all star seed?
>>NOORY: Yeah, we are.
>>BOULTER: Where did it start?
And I think we get this misnomer
that we're all running around
in our vehicles,
scooters, whatever,
and we think that
extraterrestrials
have to have a ship.
But I think that the beings
can be channeling through us,
and they didn't necessarily
need to be in ships.
So the extraterrestrials
is something-- again,
I think that these terms
and the way they're used
have been confusing us more
than giving us information.
>>NOORY: Clearly, though,
she had an elongated skull--
>>BOULTER: Yes, and--
>>NOORY: --based on
what I could see.
>>BOULTER: And
what that would do
is give more room
for the pineal gland.
And the pineal gland
is the connection
to spirit and all the psychic
nature and that sort of thing.
And so when we don't really
understand the abilities
that they had to create the
technology, to bilocate,
teleport, all that
sort of thing.
We're not used to
that, because we're
in a dumbed-down state
with a smaller pineal gland
that's even getting
less useful to us
because something like
fluoride can calcify it.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: She's onto
something, isn't she?
>>JJ HURTAK: Yes, she is.
Our mutual friend in
Austria, Klaus Dona,
has collected samples of
these elongated skulls
from all over the world.
We've had the
opportunity to work
with Jaime Gutierrez, a famous
architect anthropologist
in the country of Colombia.
And he has actually
shown us physical samples
of elongated skulls.
So we know that this phenomena
is a taste of a much earlier
area of anthropology.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Yes,
and the Egyptians clearly
had on their wall
painting, so to speak,
these elongated skulls.
>>NOORY: They did.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
So they actually
definitely communicated
with them that there were
shared intelligences with us.
And we do believe that they
came from an extraterrestrial
reality.
We agree with her, though,
somewhat that we also
think we're
extraterrestrial, and we just
can't remember
where we came from.
>>NOORY: Oh, we've
been seeded, probably.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Yeah, and so
we've been here for a while,
and therefore we don't
remember our origins.
But bottom line, we also
don't have to always come
in a physical spaceship.
I like how she said that.
We can actually just
materialize and dematerialize.
I think this is what
sometimes alien beings do
from time to time as well.
>>JJ HURTAK: This suggests
a whole new paraphysics
of hyperdimensional experience.
And what we're saying is we
need a new textbook of biology
and understanding of evolution.
We would call it the
higher evolution,
that we're one subset
of others who have
mastered time-space navigation.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: So
"The Keys of Enoch",
which is Dr. Hurtak's
main book, talks
about the fact of how the
pyramids align to Orion.
And why is Orion important?
Well, we believe it was the
place for higher intelligence.
If you go back to also the
original "Book of Enoch",
which is an ancient
Ethiopic book,
it talks about the giants
who are many ells--
they call it E-L-L-S, ells--
high.
They were actually even
higher than eight feet.
They were probably like
some of the statues
that you find in Egypt,
literally 20 feet and more.
>>NOORY: Of course, absolutely.
>>JJ HURTAK: 12 to 14 feet high.
>>NOORY: Well, the Nephilim
were giants, weren't they?
>>JJ HURTAK: Exactly.
>>NOORY: When you
read the biblical--
>>JJ HURTAK: The Nephilim
that were expelled,
we would call them the
fallen programmers.
So we have to go beyond
the nuances of ET or angel.
We have to have a whole
new cosmic vocabulary,
realizing that there
are Egyptian type levels
of civilization in space.
In fact, this is very
clear in my research
with remote viewing
and the realization
there were pyramids on Mars.
As you may or may not know
I was the first to release
the actual pictures of the
Mariner 9 probes on Mars where
you see these gigantic--
>>NOORY: You were the guy.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>JJ HURTAK: So putting
two and two together
with the myths of Far
East, Africa, the Americas,
we realize that in the
ancestry of the human race
there is a recognition that the
pyramid is the basic building
block of evolution.
It's not localized
on planet Earth.
It extends into space.
Just like human
intelligence, it's
not localized on Mother Earth.
It extends into space,
Mother Universe.
>>NOORY: I had heard that
the pyramids could have
been earthquake stabilizers.
Is that conceivable?
>>JJ HURTAK: Well,
this is one argument
that's been brought forth in
the areas of massive earthquakes
like we had in the area of
Cairo in the 12th century.
The pyramids were the most
stable structures to survive.
And I think it's
also interesting
that most of the
historic records
are put in the base of
pyramids throughout the world.
They represent, as it were, the
time capsules of information.
If you want to
keep a thing safe,
put it inside of the pyramid.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
But you know, Djoser,
which is one of
the older pyramids
that just got opened in
Saqqara, if you look inside,
it's amazing.
You know, you think
if it's just a burial
tomb then it would just
have a couple channels
and maybe some places for their
families to die and be buried.
But actually, there's
chimney stacks.
There's some unusual
structures in there.
>>NOORY: Chimney stacks?
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Yeah,
a bunch of chimney
stacks, one central
stack as well.
It's very similar to what you
would use in this technology.
So I go back to
Asclepius, you know,
it was a place of the
gods, not a place of tombs.
There was never anybody found in
any of the three main pyramids.
>>NOORY: Was it a portal?
Some kind of travel device
where you could get into it
and zoom off to
some other planet?
>>JJ HURTAK: Well I don't want
to make science fiction seem
like it's the 21st
century reality,
but we've outstripped
science fiction
in the sense of realizing
the Egyptians had
mathematical relationships,
star or astrophysical
relationships, far beyond
our level of comprehension.
>>NOORY: You both have
done great research.
Gaia's "Ancient
Civilizations" worked
on uncovering some new
understandings of the pyramids
let's take a look at how
it ties into mathematics.
>> Let's track East from Giza.
Let's go off to Cambodia,
to Angkor in Cambodia.
An amazing sight.
Again, very much related
to the investigation
of the mystery of death.
The very word
Angkor actually has
a meaning in the ancient
Egyptian language.
It means life to the Horus.
And lo and behold, it
turns out that Angkor,
with its pyramidal
monuments, Angkor
lies exactly 72 degrees
of longitude east of Giza.
I do not believe that that is
an accident or a coincidence.
I think there's a deep and
ancient connection, and what
we're looking at in Angkor
because that site was
continuously used by many
later cultures both Hindu
and Buddhist, what we're
looking at in Angkor
is the latest incarnation of a
much more ancient site, which
just like Giza, goes back
into remote prehistory.
>> Could these precise
calculations be spread across
the globe and
communicating a code?
Is it possible this is what
Nikola Tesla tapped into?
Robert Bauval predicts this
is the language of the future.
>>ROBERT BAUVAL:
Well, the way we
read the universe is
through mathematics
and through its geometry.
And through its mathematics
and geometry we need to know.
Slowly through our
evolution we begin
to work out how triangles
work, circles and ellipses,
various shapes, and now
work out the numbers, how
they produce numbers.
So having said
this, the language
that we, as human beings, would
be communicating sounds a bit--
it sounds a bit too
science fiction.
But I don't think we'll be
talking in English or Chinese
in the next two centuries.
Already we're using a different
language using computers.
I think we'll be
talking mathematics
in the sense that to
get a pure idea out,
to get a pure thought out and
to structure it so that you
understand exactly
what I'm talking about,
the shape, the size
that I mentioned,
the weight, the speed.
I'll have to number it.
I'll have to put mathematics.
The Great Pyramid is
speaking this language.
It's transmitting that language.
It's a silent language, if you
like, that needs to be read.
We don't need Egyptologists.
We don't need experts
in hieroglyphs.
It doesn't have hieroglyphs.
We need mathematicians.
We need mathematicians
to read it.
And that's one of the goals, is
to tell them to get into this.
We've moved in a direction where
we rely on external knowledge.
We seem to think that
the answer is out there
and we look for it when the
answer may be inside us.
I truly believe this.
And therefore we need to
rechange how we see ourselves
and how we educate ourselves.
I think what's interesting
now is that the science is
beginning to sort of touch
the frontiers of what
you would call in general
terms spirituality.
We internalize that
the universe is mental.
It is a mental universe.
And we need to think in
different forms, not just
purely classical science.
>>NOORY: It's amazing these
great minds, both of yours
included.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Thank you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>JJ HURTAK: --friends of
ours, Hancock and Bauval,
and the Keys of Enoch actually
give a map of the world
where there were 12
extraterrestrial cultures that
contacted us
thousands of years ago
and gave us a language
of proto-communication,
which is mathematics
plus acoustical physics
or vibrations.
George, what is interesting
is we have discovered
that acoustical physics plays
a very important role in how
the structure of the
Egyptian stones were moved,
put in place, mathematically
and musically.
In fact, when we were doing
research in the 1990s,
I was able to intone certain
ancient Egyptian Hebrew Aramaic
mantras.
And at that point
the Grand Gallery,
the largest area
inside the pyramid,
lit up in golden lights.
>>NOORY: Just instant light.
>>JJ HURTAK: Instant light
after standing columnar waves
were generated.
And so this showed us that there
was a biofeedback system built
into the sound vibrations
of the Grand Gallery
and even in the King's Chamber.
Certain mantras produce
certain vibratory levels,
raising consciousness and
producing paraphysical events.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>JJ HURTAK: We've been working
with the top musicologists
in the world, who have worked
with Steven Spielberg, who
have worked with the Academy
of Arts and Sciences.
And they now recognize
that the Egyptians also
were in tune with a
higher astrophysical
language of vibrations.
>>NOORY: They understood
frequency and resonance.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Well,
we actually recorded sound
in the King's Chamber.
And instead of having
just overtones, which
are a popular term, it
actually produced undertones,
which brought your mind into
actually an alpha frequency
vibration.
So you got into more of
a state of meditation.
And I, and other
friends at other times,
have seen, literally,
the walls drop away.
And you feel like you're
out in outer space.
So that's all the
mathematics that Bauval
was talking about that's
coded into the pyramid,
in addition to
the pi and the phi
geometry that's also encoded.
And in fact, the entire plateau
has a type of golden ratio
if you look at it in terms
of all three pyramids.
So there's a whole
sacred geometry.
And if we take it to
some of the other grid
points on the planet, which
"The Keys of Enoch" talk about,
you go to areas
like Chichen Itza.
Strange enough, we're talking
about water going underneath.
Underneath the main
pyramid of Chichen Itza,
you will find water.
>>JJ HURTAK: Even
pyramids underwater off
the coast of Taiwan and Japan.
>>NOORY: And the water must have
something to do with it, right?
>>JJ HURTAK: Exactly.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Exactly.
Well, we think not only
for the technology,
but also for the energy
and also for initiation.
I don't want to
throw out the point.
It's really a triple
use technology.
You can get initiated
because the water is also
coded within your body.
You're about 70% water.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
Fascinating.
>>JJ HURTAK: The pyramid, in
terms of its inner structure
and chambers relate, we
believe, to the different energy
circulatory systems
of the human body.
The blood circulatory
system, the lymphatic.
The heartbeat, for
example, is monitored
inside the echo patterns of the
king's coffer inside the King's
Chamber.
We would be able to do the
music test in the 1990s,
and we realized that the beats
of the human heartbeat, 68
to 72 beats--
>>NOORY: Matches.
>>JJ HURTAK: --is also matched
by patterns inside the coffer
when a person is beginning
to breathe and chant
in a certain frequency.
So in essence, the
heartbeat of the human race
is in the grand coffer,
which is reddish,
showing that we are
in the reddish portion
of the electromagnetic spectrum.
So in terms of micro mathematics
and macro mathematics,
the pyramid is a blueprint
of the human body in stone.
It is the temple
of the ancients.
It is the blueprint
of the future.
It is the cosmic
synthesis of all
of the basic functions of life.
>>NOORY: Desiree, how do
people track your works?
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
Through our websites.
We have keysofenoch.org
and also futurescience.org.
>>NOORY: Both of you
are just fantastic.
Thanks for being
on Beyond Belief.
>>JJ HURTAK: It's
great, George, and keep
being the beacon of light.
The missing capstone is
all of us working together,
is the consciousness raising
the human race into the stars.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
Fantastic minds to be sure.
The Great Pyramids
of Giza, probably one
of the greatest
mysteries of all time.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching Beyond Belief.